>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Okay,
let's talk about sub-resources.
So up to this point, we've been working
with a very one single resource,
which is our employee
resource up until now.
In the real world,
we have to work with other resources,
that's just a thing that we have to do.
So let's talk through some
design considerations for that.
So one of the most common ways to query
sub-resources is to use nested routes,
let me show you what that might look like.
So let's say we had our employee benefits,
and
we wanted to be able to
get employee benefits.
There's a couple of things we can
do when we do our GET request,
we can simply return it in
the response body, right?
On each of our employees.
Or we could say for employee 1, 2,
3, I wanna get all the benefits and
make that a separate API, a couple of
different things you can do, right?
And it's really gonna depend which of
those techniques you implement is really
gonna depend on the needs of your system.
So that would be an example of
using a nested route, right?
Employees/ Id/ benefits.
It's well supported by ASPNetCore,
OpenAPI, and
most people expect it,
it's very common to see.
So let's go ahead and go through the
trouble of adding our employee benefits
and sort of walk through this problem.
So I'm gonna go ahead and stop this.
I am going to Open Folder, and
I am going to go to we are on querying
sub-resources 3-F, so
we're gonna go to this lab.
And I'm gonna deploy all those, and
then I'm just gonna go to my
employee file right there.
And it's kind of lonely,
kind of like a Bob Ross of programming.
Let's add ourselves a nice
little employee benefits.
I mean, I know this looks great, everybody
says, when Bob Ross is adding a tree,
why has he gotta add that tree?
Until he adds it, and
then it looks awesome.
Let's add ourselves some little
employee benefits down there,
that looks good, yes, we like it.
That's thing one, but
employees have benefits.
Is that not the case?
I certainly hope they do.
So I'm gonna go down to my employees
class and I'm gonna paste that in, and
I'm just gonna basically say,
here's my list of benefits, boom.
So now, we've created kind of
an object hierarchy, right?
We have an employee object,
and then we have the benefits.
There's one employee object and what we
defined is basically a very rudimentary,
what's called a one-to-many relationship.
One employee can have many benefits,
zero to n.
So we have a couple of different
ways we can handle querying these.
As I mentioned, we can include them with
the original object which is good if you
have a small, limited number of objects
and you don't expect that list to grow.
I don't know,
I've not worked on a payroll system, but
I would say the benefits
are probably going to be,
probably no more than 10 to 20 records,
depending on how detailed they get.
But something like if you are on Amazon,
and you're wanting to get all orders for
a given account,
that list is gonna be a lot bigger.
And you're probably not gonna wanna send
that list back in a single customer GET.
You're not gonna say,
here's all the orders.
I don't even know how many
times I've ordered from Amazon,
it's way too many times,
more than I can count.
That would be a good use case for
putting it under a sub-resource or
putting it under a different route so
that you get those invoices another way.
So we're gonna go with
the simpler approach for now,
which is that we are going to include
it in our GetEmployeeResponse.
And of course,
because we have an entity object and
we don't wanna return that entity object
to the client, we're gonna go ahead and
create a GetEmployeeResponse,
EmployeeBenefit class.
So we're gonna put that here in our
GetEmployeeResponse right there,
and we're gonna paste that in.
And then we're gonna say,
we're gonna create a required property and
require that our callers set it,
which will create a nice compiler error.
Which we'll use to again, go and find it
and fix it before we run our project.
So we'll go to our GET method right here,
you can see if our IDE
is working as expected.
Let's see, we certainly can
go to our employee object,
our EmployeeController.cs right here, and
you can see yes, now the problems
are popping in down there.
It says required member must be
set in the object initializer, so
we're not setting it here.
So we'll go ahead and do that.
So we'll go benefits and =,
and then what do we have here?
So we're gonna go ahead and
Select the benefit from
the core employee object.
So we're gonna go and
copy that in, paste that here,
tab over to make it look pretty.
And you're gonna see that we are now
getting our employee benefits from our
employee record, and
we need to do the same thing down here.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Cool,
got rid of our compiler errors,
our compiler is happy now.
But let's clean up a little bit
of that boilerplate, I mean,
that's a lot of duplication, right?
So let's just add us a nice
little factory method right here.
Copy that in and put that right
at the bottom of our controller.
And now we're just gonna have one common
way of creating our GetEmployeeResponses.
Do a little bit of cleanup,
I like to clean as I go, and
this is one of those cases.
So now we've removed a little
bit of duplication, and
we've also had the benefit of
actually saving us lines of code.
And while I'm not strictly speaking a less
lines of code is always better in this
case, I'd say it looks a lot better.
Go here, create EmployeeResponse,
our EmployeeResponse.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And then we
will open that parent, call that method,
employee, and
then delete that extra parenthesis.
Okay, it's a lot cleaner,
that looks a lot nicer.
Nice little cleanup there,
I like to keep things neat and tidy.
All right, so
it's okay to get the objects, but
it gets more complex when we think about
adding and removing sub-resources, right?
Now, we wanna be able to mutate those,
we wanna add benefits,
we wanna remove benefits.
Well, do we wanna do that
through the parent object?
Probably not.
There's a lot of reasons why
you wouldn't wanna do that,
but that essentially means that you could
design an API where you have to send every
employee field to your API.
And then send all of the benefits and then
write a bunch of custom nasty logic to add
them or remove them, depending on whether
or not they're present in that list.
Do we create new endpoints that
handle the sub-resource data?
Probably, it's a little bit of a cleaner
way, requires less nasty code.
So you have a benefit, a post request
that's specifically for created benefits.
And then how do we handle updating?
Assuming that we're able to just straight
update benefits, a benefit is probably
an object that in the real world,
is gonna require some workflow.
But keeping it simple for now, maybe we
just have a single update endpoint for
benefits as opposed to trying to update
a batch of them for a specific employee.
I say that let's get to this question
a little more once we have a real data
source.
Without that, without a real data source,
cuz our repository,
got a little spoiler for you,
is not gonna live much longer.
Outside of that, we're gonna just
throw all that code away anyway, so
we'll talk about it when we get there.
So we'll talk about instead
querying them separately.
This is the other common way of
dealing with sub-resources, and
this is the one that we're gonna go with.
And so I'm gonna copy this in to here,
I'm gonna copy that into
my controller here.
Put that in there like this, and
we've now created a new GET endpoint for
on an employeeId,
now we can get that Employee'sBenefits.
And it's gonna behave very similar
to our single GetEmployeeId,
which is to say that we now have an
endpoint that we're gonna get the employee
by Id out of our repository.
And if that employee is null, aka can't
be found, we're gonna return not found.
Otherwise, we're just going to
return a list of the benefits.
Pretty straightforward, but of course,
we don't wanna return our
benefits object directly.
So we're gonna do just a little
bit more cleanup and just say,
create our little factory method
to convert our EmployeeBenefits to
an GetEmployeeResponseEmployeeBenefit
object.
So I'm gonna use Select,
I'm gonna use a little link.
I'm gonna pass this
reference to this method,
you could do these one of two ways.
You could say, b goes into and
then GetEmployee or
BenefitToBenefitResponse, that's
the name of our method,
BenefitToBenefitResponse, and give it b.
Or we can just skip all of that,
you can see that it says,
you can just remove this
lambda expression directly and
just pass it the function directly, which
we can do here, which is what we'll do.
It's a little bit of link magic,
perfect, it's looking good.
Okay, now we can use that method.
And we're not only, we've created
a sub-resource for our benefits,
and we've created an object that will
represent our response back to the client.
We're not using entity objects,
so we're looking really good.
We can also add a test for it.
Now, recall that we just
extended our employee object, so
we have to do just a little bit of work to
make sure that that employee has benefits
that we can actually get.
So we'll just continue to use
John Doe here as our test subject.
We'll go to our tests, go to our
UnitTest.cs, and we'll go ahead and
add John's benefits, which in this case
it's BenefitType.Health and it costs $100.
Okay, then we can go ahead and
write our test as well.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Boom,
go through that test in a second, but
let's do a little manual check.
Let's get the satisfaction
of seeing our benefits.
All right, let's see.
So if we get our employees, I don't think,
do we, yes, what's our code right now?
5129, or did something did not compile?
That's right,
tried to run the test project.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Okay,
we're gonna get all of our employees.
Yeah, I was gonna say,
I think that array is empty.
We'll go ahead and
add 1 to our project real quick.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Up here,
we'll go to our UnitTest.cs.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Copy our repo,
do a little bit of magic.
Where's our employees going?
These employees aren't used at all.
All right, so
we can go to our EmployeeRepository.
We'll just new it up, EmployeeRepository,
new EmployeeRepository, boom, boom.
And then foreach var e in employees,
we'll do EmployeeRepository.create e.
And then we will go here, and
instead of just having it instantiate
the type we'll provide it directly,
EmployeeRepository, and let's just give
John Doe a little bit of benefits.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Perfect,
there we go.
Give John Doe a little benefits.
And now we've got some data
inside of our repo that we
can use to get in our GetEmployee call.
Now we see that we have data, and
you can see that we get our benefits back.
What is John Doe's Id?
John Doe's ID is probably,
I'm gonna guess it's 1,
so I'm going to say 1 and benefits.
And you're gonna see that we get John's
benefits back the BenefitType and
the EmployeeId,
EmployeeId should be set though.
But at any rate,
we'll get to that when we get to our
entity framework part of the talk.
And then, of course, we can go back
to our test, we can build our tests,
and we can see that we have our
benefits for employee's test.
We can run it, we specify that
John has two benefits up here.
So in our test, we assert that that's
how many benefits that we get back, and
that is the case.
That's how many benefits we get back,
we get some passing tests and for
good measure,
let's run the rest of them too.
All green, we like it.
So that's some considerations that
you might make when you're adding
sub-resources in for your API.
Do you return it in the parent object?
Do you return it in a sub-object?
Do you create them in the parent object?
Probably not, it's best to do
it inside of its own resource.
So in this case, create a benefit API,
and then create and
update those benefits from there.